CS331 (Spring 2016): Introduction to Artificial Intelligence 
Written Assignment #1 
 

 
Date handed out: March 30, 2016 
Date due: April 6, 2016 at the start of class 
Total: 25 points 
 
The written portion of this assignment is to be done individually.  Please hand in a 
hardcopy.  Assignments done on a word processor are preferred but not mandatory.  For 
hand written assignments, if we cannot read your writing, we cannot mark your 
assignment. 
 
1.  You will be answering parts (a)-(c) for an agent that controls the traffic lights at a 4-
way intersection (where 2 roads cross, with traffic flowing in all directions). The lights 
have green/yellow/red main lights plus a left-turn arrow and a pedestrian indicator. The 
agent controls which lights go on and how long they stay on. Assume the intersection has 
signals for pedestrians and in-pavement detectors right before the crosswalk for cars and 
bikes. [11 pts]. 
 
a) Develop a description of the task environment using the PEAS description i.e.: 
  Performance 
  Environment 
  Actuators 
  Sensors 

 
b) Then describe the environment according to the following properties: 
 
fully vs partially observable 
  deterministic vs stochastic 
  episodic vs sequential 
  static vs dynamic 
  discrete vs continuous 
  single vs multi-agent 

 
Note that in some cases, both answers might be correct.  Justify each answer to the task 
environment properties with a one sentence explanation.   
 
c) Suggest the most appropriate agent design by choosing the most appropriate of the 
following agent types: 
  simple reflex agent 
  model-based reflex agent 
  goal-based agents 
  utility-based agent 
Justify your answer with a one sentence explanation.   
 

1/2 

2.(Exercise 2.3a-d in the book) For each statement, say whether it is true or false. Provide 
a one-sentence example, counterexample, or justification. 
 
a) An agent that senses only partial information about the state cannot be perfectly 
rational. [2 points] 
 
b) There exist task environments in which no pure reflex agent can behave rationally.  [2 
points] 
 
c) There exists a task environment in which every agent is rational. [2 points] 
 
d) The input to an agent program is the same as the input to the agent function. [2 points] 
 
 
3. (Exercise 2.10a-c in the book) Consider a modified version of the vacuum 
environment: 
  Performance measure: one point awarded for each clean square at each time step 
and one point penalized for each movement 
  Environment: map is known a priori (squares A and B as in class and Figure 2.2), 
dirt distribution and initial location are unknown. Clean squares stay clean.  
  Actuators: Suck cleans dirt, Left moves left, Right moves right. 
  Sensors: Location and dirt sensors. 

 
a) Can a simple reflex agent be perfectly rational for this environment?  [2 points]  
 
b) What about a reflex agent with state? Describe such an agent. [2 points] 
 
c) How do your answers to a and b change if the agent’s percepts give it the clean/dirty 
status of every square in the environment? [2 points] 
 

2/2 

