CS312 Homework #5                       Sam Quinn
March 2, 2016
Due Wednesday, Mar 9th.

Questions
1. Load balancers are designed to help with vertical scaling.
    (b) False
2. Layer 7 load balancers allow you to use both connection tracking and inspection of packets including modification of packets.
    (a) True
3. Linux containers do not require hypervisors
    (a) True
4. The RUN command can be used more than once in a Dockerfile.
    (a) True
5. The PID Namespace allows users to see processes from other containers
    (b) False
6. Paravirtualization uses CPU supported virtualization.
    (a) True
7. Which software load balancer primarily acts as an HTTP accelerator
and a static cache server?
    (d) Varnish
8. Which of the following is not true about Linux Containers?
    (a) Operating system level virtualization
    (b) Provides little overhead
    (d) Allows limits to resources with cgroups
9. Which service describes a virtual computing platform?
    (a) IaaS
10. Describe the potential problems of using Round Robin DNS.
    One problem that is present with a Round Robin DNS, is that it does not have automatic fail over. Also depending on the implementation round robin DNS could be somewhat random or not. 
11. Which scheduling algorithm is generally preferred if the web application uses sessions?
    If the sessions are long the "Least Connection" algorithm is perferred. 
12. Which HAProxy configuration section allows you to define a complete proxy?
    The "listen" configuration defines a complete proxy with its frontend and backend parts combined in one section.
13. Name the two components of the Linux Kernel that are required to make Linux containers function.
    1) CGroups             - Process resource limiting, accounting, and prioritization.
    2) Namespace Isolation - Sepperation proccess resorces.
14. Define what a hypervisor is.
    Creates virtual hardware for virtual machines on the same host. In other words a hypervisor is a virtul machine manager.
15. Provide an example of a Type 2 hypervisor.
    A type 2 Hypervisor will pass certain commands dirctly to the reall host CPU, memory, disk, network and other resources. 
16. Explain the relationship between KVM and QEMU in detail.
    KVM is used for the virtulization of the Linux kernel that needs too work closly with the virtual I/O devices that are created by QEMU. Both of these systems need one another to work properly. 
17. Explain the relationship with Libvirt and KVM in detail.
    Libvirt is the application protocol interface that KVM will use to manage varios virtualizatoion platforms. 
18. What are the primary differences between Ganeti and Openstack?
    Ganeti doesn't have the cloud like fetures present in the Openstack platform. While Openstack can be very complicated Ganeti is fairly easy to customize.
19. Define in detail what a cloud or machine image is.
    It is essentially an entire filesystem that has a functioning OS installed on it. 
20. Name three useful features that distributed systems tend to support.
    1) Redundancy           - If a server goes down the work can be transfered to the other nodes.
    2) Fault-tolerance      - Nodes can determine faults and destribute load elsewere
    3) Horizontal Scalable  - Allow for easily adding systems to the cluster without much effort. 
