CS 478: Network Security (Spring 2016) 
 
Instructor: Dr. Attila A Yavuz 
 
Homework 1 (04/07/2016) 
 
(Assigned on 04/07/2016, deadline (sharp) on 04.21.2016) 
 
Remarks:  This  homework  focuses  on  basic  concepts,  symmetric  ciphers,  DES,  AES, 
cryptographic  hash  functions,  use  of  encryption  and  MACs,  and  security  properties/definitions. 
This  homework  aims  at  extending  your  knowledge  on  the  complementary  aspects  of  the  topics 
covered  during  the  class  (so  it  goes  beyond  the  material  simply  put  on  the  slides,  as  described 
and emphasized before).  
 
Requirements: HW will be completed by each student individually (no collaboration). 
  
Directly borrowing (e.g., copy-paste) from any material and putting in solutions (e.g, from online 
solutions,  Wikipedia,  or  research  papers)  is  plagiarism  (see  Syllabus  for  its  corresponding 
actions).  Please  cite  very  carefully  each  resource  you  use,  but  citing  a  solution  does  not  give  a 
license to directly put  it as an answer. All of your answers must be  in your  in own words and 
interpretations. 
 
HW  should  be  prepared  by  a  text  editor  (e.g.,  Microsoft  Word  or  Latex).  Handwritten 
submissions are not accepted.  
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
1)  [5] Question about basic concepts: 
(2) What are the main security/performance trade-offs for symmetric and asymmetric 
cryptography to be deployed in practice? Could you give real-life scenarios where 
symmetric and asymmetric crypto could be more suitable?  
(2) OTPs are highly secure, but why we do not see them much in practice? 
(1) Does Kerckhoffs's principle contradict with the “secret algorithm” practice in military 
systems? Given sufficient financial capability, how could you incorporate Kerckhoffs's 
principle into such high-end systems? 

2) [8] Data Encryption Standard (DES). DES has weak keys.  
(3) What is the difference between a weak key, a semi-weak key and a possible weak 
key?  
(3) What is double DES?  What kind of attack on double DES makes it useless? 
(2) What is triple DES?  How many keys are use in triple DES process?  

3) [8] Block Cipher Design Principles and AES 
(2)  What  is  the  basic  design  technique,  which  is  frequently  used  to  construct  modern 
symmetric ciphers?  
(2) What are the main security properties achieved via this designed technique?  (4) Given 
the  example  of  AES,  which  functional  steps  enable  achieving  these  properties?  Please 
provide  specific  names  of  these  operations  and  briefly  explain  how  they  are  applied  in 
AES (all answers are brief for this question)?  
(4) What are the benefits of the use of finite field arithmetic in AES?  
 
4)  [12] We have discussed various Symmetric Encryption Modes. Each of  these modes  satisfies 
certain properties, which can be  an  advantage or disadvantage  for  a given  application. Construct 
a  table providing a  summary  information  about  each mode and  its corresponding properties. For 
example,  each  row  of  the  table  will  be  properties  (e.g.,  parallel  operation,  ciphertext 
manipulation,  pre-computation,  etc.,  please  see  course  notes  for  more  properties)  and  columns 
are  Modes  (e.g.,  CBC,  CTR…).  Each  cell  will  take  a  value  such  as  “Yes”,  “No”,  “partially”, 
“high”, “low” etc. according to given encryption mode and property.  
 
5)  [10]  “Ciphertext  manipulability”  is  generally  considered  as  an  undesirable  property  for 
Encryption  Modes.  However,  for  modes  that  operates  in  stream  cipher  fashion  (discussed  in 
class), by design, it is possible to flip bits in plaintext by flipping bits of ciphertext.  

(1) Why is this possible?  
(5)  Is  there  a  way  to  turn  this  (potentially)  undesirable  property  into  an  advantage, 
describe how if there is one?  
(4) Which  extra  cryptographic  function  (a  group  of  functions  discussed  in  the  class)  can 
be applied to the ciphertext so that the aforementioned advantage can be obtained without 
compromising the security?  
 
Hints:  (i) Consider  noisy  communication  channels  as  application  domain  to  exploit  this  feature. 
(ii) The extra cryptographic function will require annexing a small-constant tag to the ciphertext.  
 
6) [6] Encryption (E) and Compression (C) are generally used together to achieve confidentiality 
and  efficiency  simultaneously. Given  a message M, with which order  function E  and C must be 
applied? What are the reasons behind of this particular order?   
 
7)  [20]  In  symmetric  key  cryptography,  it  is  desirable  to  achieve  both  confidentiality  and 
authentication  (also  provides  integrity)  of  the  data.  These  properties  can  be  achieved  via 
Encryption (E) and Authentication Functions (A), respectively. What is the correct order of these 
operations? Lets assume the specific notation and order of these operations are as follows: 
 
Authenticate-then-Encrypt (AtE) 
Encrypt-then-Authenticate (EtA) 
Encryption and Authentication (E&A) or the opposite way as (A&E) 
 
Discuss the security implications of these choices, which one is recommended and why? 

Mention important crypto papers (at least one, cite it), in which the security of an important real-
life  protocol  (Hint:  the  protocol  that  securely  connects  your  VPN  for  each  e-commerce 
transaction!)  analyzed  based  on  the  above  orders.  Explain  why  this  order  matters  a  lot  in 
practice?  You  may  provide  some  discussions  from  these  papers  (please  be  brief,  just  hit  on 
important points).  
 
8)  [11] Given  a modern  cryptographic  hash  function  (e.g.,  SHA) with m-bit  length  output, what 
is  the maximum  security  it  can  provide  in  terms  of  m  (lets  call  it  x-bit  security)? A  generalized 
proof  for  any  given  m-bit  hash  function  is  available  to  show  why  it  can  achieve  at  best  x-bit 
security.  Please  describe  this  generalized  proof  (related  birthday  attack  concept)  that  simply 
connects m-bit to x-bit.  
 
9)  [10] What  is  the  hash  length  extension  attack?  Please  describe  by  giving  some  specific  real-
life examples.  
  
10) [10] Properties of cryptographic hash function 
(5) What are the essential properties that a cryptographic hash function must satisfy?  
(5) What is a Random Oracle and how does it play a role in the security proofs in general 
(what is its relation with cryptographic hash functions?).  
