CS 419 / ECE 478: Introduction to Network Security (Spring 2016) 
 
Instructor: Dr. Attila A Yavuz 
 
Homework 3  
(Assigned 05/17/16, Due 5/27/16) 

 
Requirements: HW will be completed by each student individually (no collaboration). 
  
Directly borrowing (e.g., copy-paste) from any material and putting in solutions (e.g, from 
online  solutions,  Wikipedia,  or  research  papers)  is  plagiarism  (see  Syllabus  for  its 
corresponding  actions).  Please  cite  very  carefully  each  resource  you  use,  but  citing  a 
solution does not give a license to directly put it as an answer.  All of your answers must 
be in your in own words and interpretations. 
 
HW should be prepared by LaTeX or Word. Handwritten submissions are not accepted.  
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
 1)   [30] Impact of the PRGN Quality over the Security of DLP-based Primitives  
 
During  the  class, we  have  discussed Meta-Elgamal  signature  families. DSS  and  Schnorr 
signatures  are  some  of  the  most  well-known  examples  of  such  digital  signatures.  In  all 
these  schemes,  during  the  signature  generation  phase,  the  signer  invokes  a  PRNG.  For 
instance,  in  Schnorr  signature  scheme  [see  the  slides  of  ETA  paper  in  the  webpage], 
randomness  r  is  generated  and  used  together  with  the  message  as  H(M||r).  Despite  its 
advantages  for the  formal proof process,  this approach may also create vulnerabilities for 
such cryptosystems. Consider the following attack: 
 
The server computes a Schnorr signature under private key y (here we follow the notation 
of ETA slide/paper) periodically such that for every message M to be signed, it adds current 
time  stamp  ts_i  and  involve  randomness  r_i  as  H(M||ts_i||r_i)  and  follows  the  Schnorr 
signature  algorithm  as  required.  Here,  r_i  is  the  output  of  a  PRNG,  which  derives 
randomness from certain Operating System (OS) parameters.  
 
Assume  that  an  attacker  managed  infiltrating  a  virus  into  the  OS  of  the  server,  which  is 
capable of resetting OS parameters that PRGN relies on, meaning the seed of PRNG is set 
to its initial values.  
 
Show that by observing small-constant number of signatures, the attacker can totally break 
the Schnorr signature scheme under these circumstances (remark that it does not mean the 
Schnorr signature scheme is flawed, it is about how it is used with certain PRNGs). 
 
You must show how the attack works step by step, by illustrating algebraic recovery step, 
and explain how ts_i and r_i play a role in this attack.  

 
•  (3) Explain EU-CMA experiment for a MAC scheme. 
3) [20] Basic security models for authentication primitives  
•  (4) Explain EU-CMA experiment for a digital signature scheme.  
•  (3)  Why  adaptability  is  important,  and  what  are  non-triviality  and  validity 
conditions?  
 
Please  describe  the  formal  experiments  with  cryptographic  games,  providing  the  related 
probability equation, and then give a brief explanation what these probabilities means. You 
may refer Mihir Bellare’s Lecture Notes as a source. Also, the book of Prof. Dr. Jonathan 
Katz referred in the Syllabus is a good resource for this question.  
 
 
4) [20] Do you see any synergy between Elgamal encryption scheme and DH key exchange 
 5)  [20]  RSA  digital  signatures  and  their  properties:  Aggregate  signatures  enable  O(L) 
protocol? Explain how one implicitly uses another to achieve its objective.  
signatures to be compressed into a single, compact (i.e., constant-size) verifiable signature. 
In  RSA,  it  is  easy  to  aggregate  signatures  computed  under  the  same  private 
 
key. What is the name of this scheme, and how this aggregation is performed?  
• 
In cloud computing environment, especially  in outsourced databases, several 
tuples  belonging  to  different  users  are  stored  together.  Therefore,  it  is 
desirable  to  aggregate  signatures  computed  with  different  keys  belonging 
different  users.  Is  it  possible  to  use  the  RSA  aggregation  strategy  discussed 
above  for  this  purpose?  If  it  is  possible,  show  how  it  can  be  done.  If  it  is  not 
possible, explain the reason in detail. 
 Hint:  The  paper  “Practical  immutable  signature  bouquets  (PISB)  for 
authentication and integrity in outsourced databases” might give you clues for 
both questions.   
 6)  [10] PKI Concepts:  
•  (4)  What  are  the  core  components  of  a  PKI?  Briefly  describe  each 
component. 
•  (3) Discuss the trustworthiness of root certificates provided by browsers. 
•  (3)  What  is  the  purpose  of  the  X.509  standard  and  what  is  a  certificate 
chain? How is an X.509 certificate revoked?  
 

• 

